Add post for 1.77 (#1271)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2024-03-21-Rust-1.77.0.md

release: true
---

The Rust team is happy to announce a new version of Rust, 1.77.0. Rust is a programming language empowering everyone to build reliable and efficient software.

If you have a previous version of Rust installed via `rustup`, you can get 1.77.0 with:

```console
$ rustup update stable
```

If you don't have it already, you can [get `rustup`](https://www.rust-lang.org/install.html) from the appropriate page on our website, and check out the [detailed release notes for 1.77.0](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/releases.html#version-77-2024-03-21).

If you'd like to help us out by testing future releases, you might consider updating locally to use the beta channel (`rustup default beta`) or the nightly channel (`rustup default nightly`). Please [report](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/new/choose) any bugs you might come across!

## What's in 1.77.0 stable

This release is relatively minor, but as always, even incremental improvements lead to a greater whole. A few of those changes are highlighted in this post, and others may yet fill more niche needs.

### C-string literals

Rust now supports C-string literals (`c"abc"`) which expand to a nul-byte

> terminated string in memory of type `&CStr`. This makes it easier to write code

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning the lifetime, especially since dangling `CString("...").as_ptr()` is such a common problem.
```suggestion
terminated string in memory of type `&'static CStr`. This makes it easier to write code
```

interoperating with foreign language interfaces which require nul-terminated
strings, with all of the relevant error checking (e.g., lack of interior nul
byte) performed at compile time.

### Support for recursion in `async fn`

> async functions previously could not call themselves due to a compiler analysis
> limitation. In 1.77, that limitation has been lifted, so recursive calls are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Async functions previously could not call themselves due to a compiler
limitation. In 1.77, that limitation has been lifted, so recursive calls are
```
the limitation was not in our analysis, it was in our internal representation of the type of the state machine. The state machines were structural types, so any recursive async function would have previously resulted in a recursive type. It has the same underlying cause preventing tuples from containing references to itself, while tuple structs are allowed to do so.

- [`f32::round_ties_even`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.f32.html#method.round_ties_even)
- [`f64::round_ties_even`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.f64.html#method.round_ties_even)
- [`mem::offset_of!`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/mem/macro.offset_of.html)
- [`slice::first_chunk`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.first_chunk)
- [`slice::first_chunk_mut`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.first_chunk_mut)
- [`slice::split_first_chunk`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_first_chunk)
- [`slice::split_first_chunk_mut`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_first_chunk_mut)
- [`slice::last_chunk`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.last_chunk)
- [`slice::last_chunk_mut`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.last_chunk_mut)
- [`slice::split_last_chunk`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_last_chunk)
- [`slice::split_last_chunk_mut`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_last_chunk_mut)

> - [`slice::chunk_by`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.chunk_by)

Reviewer 3: No docs found for this link. Or link is not working!

Reviewer 3: slice::chunk_by

> - [`slice::chunk_by_mut`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.chunk_by_mut)

Reviewer 3: No docs found for this link. Or link is not working!

Reviewer 3: slice::chunk_by_mut

Author: Both of these will work once the stable release goes out.

Reviewer 4: Renamed during stabilization, you can see the correct doc in nightly. Once we release stable 1.77 the stable doc will be rebuilt, so it will become valid link later and nothing wrong here.

---
layout: post
title: "Announcing Rust 1.77.0"
author: The Rust Release Team
release: true
---

The Rust team is happy to announce a new version of Rust, 1.77.0. Rust is a programming language empowering everyone to build reliable and efficient software.

> If you have a previous version of Rust installed via rustup, you can get 1.77.0 with:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you have a previous version of Rust installed via `rustup`, you can get 1.77.0 with:
```

```console
$ rustup update stable
```

If you don't have it already, you can [get `rustup`](https://www.rust-lang.org/install.html) from the appropriate page on our website, and check out the [detailed release notes for 1.77.0](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/releases.html#version-77-2024-03-21).

If you'd like to help us out by testing future releases, you might consider updating locally to use the beta channel (`rustup default beta`) or the nightly channel (`rustup default nightly`). Please [report](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/new/choose) any bugs you might come across!

> ## What's in 1.77.0 stable

Reviewer 6: What do people think of including the [`incompatible_msrv` clippy lint](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/pull/12160)?  I feel like this is going to be a dramatic quality of life improvement for people maintaining an MSRV and (if I did my math right) is in for this release.

This release is relatively minor, but as always, even incremental improvements lead to a greater whole. A few of those changes are highlighted in this post, and others may yet fill more niche needs.

### C-string literals

Rust now supports C-string literals (`c"abc"`) which expand to a nul-byte
terminated string in memory of type `&CStr`. This makes it easier to write code
providing nul-terminated strings, with all of the relevant error checking (e.g.,

> lack of interior nul byte) performed at compile time.

Reviewer 7: Is it worth adding a further "why" here? I.e. it makes it easier to write code providing nul-terminated strings, which makes it easier to interact with C code. (AIUI there is no reason to use these if you're not interacting with C code.)

> taking nul-terminated strings, with all of the relevant error checking (e.g.,
> lack of interior nul byte) implemented within the compiler.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
providing nul-terminated strings, with all of the relevant error checking (e.g.,
lack of interior nul byte) performed at compile time.
```

### `offset_of!`

1.77.0 stabilizes [`offset_of!`] for struct fields, which provides access to the
byte offset of the relevant public field of a struct. This macro is most useful
when the offset of a field is required without an existing instance of a type.
Implementing such a macro is already possible on stable, but without an
instance of the type the implementation would require tricky unsafe code which
makes it easy to get into undefined behavior.

Users can now access the offset of a public field with `offset_of!(StructName,
field)`. This expands to a `usize` expression with the offset in bytes from the
start of the struct.

> Note that the output of the macro is not typically stable across compiler
> versions or across platforms. See the macro's documentation for details on when the output can be relied on.

Reviewer 5: I think it's not obvious what this paragraph is referring to, to a newcomer. Out of context, “the output … be relied on” sounds like `offset_of!()` is fragile or narrowly applicable and would be dangerous to use without special care. I think it should be clarified that this caveat is about the _location of a field_, not whether `offset_of!()` accurately represents that location.

```suggestion
Note that the location of a field, and therefore the output of this macro, is not typically
stable across compiler versions or across platforms.
```

Or perhaps this doesn't even need to be mentioned in the blog overview at all.

Author: Yeah, I debated including it. I think dropping it entirely is probably reasonable.

[`offset_of!`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/mem/macro.offset_of.html

### Enable strip in release profiles by default

Cargo [profiles](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/reference/profiles.html)
which do not enable [debug info](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/reference/profiles.html#debug) in
outputs (e.g., `debug = 0`) will enable `strip = "debuginfo"` by default.

This is primarily needed because the (precompiled) standard library ships with
debug info, which means that statically linked results would include the
debuginfo from the standard library even if the local compilations didn't

> explicitly request debuginfo.

Reviewer 5: This paragraph uses both "debug info" and "debuginfo". I think it'd be better to choose one spelling and stick with it (through all three paragraphs, except for the TOML quote of course).

- [`slice::split_first_chunk_mut`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_first_chunk_mut)
- [`slice::last_chunk`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.last_chunk)
- [`slice::last_chunk_mut`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.last_chunk_mut)
- [`slice::split_last_chunk`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_last_chunk)
- [`slice::split_last_chunk_mut`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_last_chunk_mut)
- [`slice::chunk_by`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.chunk_by)
- [`slice::chunk_by_mut`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.chunk_by_mut)
- [`Bound::map`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/ops/enum.Bound.html#method.map)
- [`File::create_new`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/fs/struct.File.html#method.create_new)
- [`Mutex::clear_poison`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/sync/struct.Mutex.html#method.clear_poison)
- [`RwLock::clear_poison`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/sync/struct.RwLock.html#method.clear_poison)

### Other changes

> Check out everything that changed in [Rust](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/releases/tag/1.77.0), [Cargo](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#cargo-177-2024-02-08), and [Clippy](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#rust-177).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Check out everything that changed in [Rust](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/releases/tag/1.77.0), [Cargo](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#cargo-177-2024-03-21), and [Clippy](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#rust-177).
```

Rust now supports C-string literals (`c"abc"`) which expand to a nul-byte
terminated string in memory of type `&CStr`. This makes it easier to write code
interoperating with foreign language interfaces which require nul-terminated
strings, with all of the relevant error checking (e.g., lack of interior nul
byte) performed at compile time.

### Support for recursion in `async fn`

async functions previously could not call themselves due to a compiler analysis
limitation. In 1.77, that limitation has been lifted, so recursive calls are
permitted so long as they use some form of indirection to avoid an infinite
size for the state of the function.

This means that code like this now works:

```rust

> async fn fib(n : u32) -> u32 {

Reviewer 5: rustfmt-standard formatting:

```suggestion
async fn fib(n: u32) -> u32 {
```
